Rabbit:
The leaver of mysterious notes. We know from the rabbit's signature, the pawprint.

Bell:
Whenever the bell rings, someone disappears. 
Evil rabbit scenario: This is down to a magic bell script, which the rabbit carries.
Good rabbit scenario: Random monster!

Swordsmaster:
The swordsmaster was the previous master librarian. He had access to the forbidden commands in the library, and late one night learned the rm command. In testing this dangerous command, he killed a colleague (his wife?). Horrified by what he had done, he faked his death and then went into hiding.
As the rm command is the equivalent of bringing death, he reshaped the remove command to become a sword, which he keeps with him always.
He wears a mask to hide his true identity.
From his time as head libarian, he is knowledgable about other commands. As part of his role as the Head Librarian, he locked away the sudo command using chmod.

Clara:
Clara is a current librarian. As a result, she has heard the rumors of a knowledgable swordsmaster through the head librarian, but is too new to know his full story.

Head Librarian (Rob?): 
We haven't met him yet. He was working at the library when the masked swordsmaster was the Head Librarian, and was the one who knew what happened to the swordsmaster. He kept the swordsmaster's identity a secret, but aware of the knowledge in the library and what could happen if something was to happen to him, he gave some information about the Masked Sowrdsmaster away to the juniors.

little-boy
The son of Clara

young-girl
The daughter of Clara

Bernard:
He is the son of the swordsmaster. When his father went missing, assumed dead, he inherited a "photocopier.sh" and a few other scripts. He does not have a full understanding of the commands that his father had, and later the rabbit kidnaps him.

Eleanor:
The daughter of Edith and Edward. 
When we first meet her, her dog runs away and we see how distressed she is, to the point that she runs outside into possible danger to save the dog. It's not clear if this is from naiviety of the possible danger, or if it is a reflection of how much she loved her dog.
We later see her after her parents go missing. They run out of food and go off in search for some, and in turn get kidnapped by the rabbit. She seems unaware of this, and asks to accompany you to discover what happened to them.
Later, we meet Clara who is much more aware of the dangers, and asks that Eleanor stays with her, and that she'll keep them safe.

grumpy-man:
Quickly referenced as an example of what can go wrong when a man is only partially moved. (complete bollocks of course).

Ruth:
Wife of grumpy-man. She is a farmer's wife. She is demanding and bossy, but clearly unnerved once she hears about the disappearence of her husband. From going through her husband's toolshed, you learn mkdir.


Chapter 4: Save Eleanor
Commands so far: ls cd cat mv mkdir echo
Commands learned in this chapter: nano
Commands used: cat ls cd echo nano

Chapter 5: Meet the swordsmaster
Commands so far: ls cd cat mv mkdir echo nano
Learned in this chapter: chmod +r, +w
Commands used: ls cat cd echo chmod

The aim of this chapter is to equip the user with the ability to use chmod.
This unblocks them with the ability to unlock the library's Forbidden Section.

We've been given a very explicit clue about meeting the swordsmaster by Clara:
"Clara: "He (the head librarian) said the masked swordsmaster lived in the woods.

So we go to the windy road to look for the woods. In the woods, we find a grassy path and a rocky path. 
Down the rocky path is the swordsmaster's garden.
------------------
(NOTE: We have a greater problem here of the path being so long it doesn't wrap around properly.
To solve this we need to introduce pwd so the user has a way of knowing where they are.
And if they haven't done the lessons with pwd, there should be a later lesson introduced to force them to use it.)
----------------
In the garden/clearing is a house. If you try to go into the house, you find the door is "locked".
If you look at the signpost, you find a message that suggests you "knock" on the door using "echo knock knock".
On doing this, the swordsmaster bellows from the house, asking who you are. The idea behind this is that your name is foretold (as the user) and he has seen your name in the permissions of the files.

He lets you in.

He asks you how you found him.
You tell him Clara / a librarian told you he was in the woods.
(At this point, he could grumble the name of the current head librarian.)

He asks you why you seek him
You say you seek for a way to unlock the private section in the library.
He recoils, and says there is great power locked away in that section.
"There is a monster seeking what is locked away in that section. To unlock it would be to put the world in peril"

Replies:
1: What is inside that is so dangerous? -> informative option
2: How dare you refuse me old man! -> die?
3: This world is already in peril -> main story option

1: 